[Music]
extinction is a terrifying
word we always use carefully but with
only around 35 Amur leopards left in the
wild extinction is a real and terrible
possibility you heard right 35 making
them the most endangered big cat on the
planet as Diane walking turn explains
the sad truth is that there are only 35
Amur leopards left in the wild in 35 can
you imagine every single one is
important and the only place they
survive is in a small area that is
between Vladivostok to the east and the
Glaus east china border to the west an
area of maybe just 5,000 square
kilometers
they live in the deep forest open plains
and untamed mountains a rugged region of
desperately harsh winters if you thought
that such a remote wilderness would be
free from the threat of mankind you'd be
wrong
logging has cut a swathe through the
forest that once provided a safe haven
for wildlife forest fires have decimated
vast areas and hunting and disease has
killed huge numbers of deer and wild
boar on which the leopards rely to
survive
is it possible for any animal to come
back from such a precarious position we
know it is that's why we urgently need
you to adopt the Amur leopards time is
running out for them but it's not yet
too late
we work on so many levels to secure the
future of the Amur leopard we help
prevent trade in these endangered
animals stop damaging industrial
development increase the prey they need
to survive
train and equip local people to fight
forest fires it's not easy saving any
species is never easy but it's working
border guards have already cracked down
on illegal trade the Russian government
has reroute Adana oil pipeline that
would have cut straight through the
lepers decreasing forests
we've even set up and helped equip three
fire brigades to prevent and tackle
forest fires in fact damage from forest
fires has been cut by 55 percent in just
three years
Diane walking tonneaus witnessed the
work of frontline heroes to save the
Amur leopards one of the people I've
worked with very closely over the last
few years
he's called Pavel Fomenko he's an
amazing guy he spends virtually all of
his time out in the forest she put him
in a conference room for two days he's
almost like a caged bear and needs to
get away and he really is one of the
frontline people in this fight against
him the the forest being lost the Amur
leopard he goes out there all through
the winter tracking Amur leopards
finding their footprints calculating how
many there are he must have spent
virtually all of last winter out there
in his snowshoes on his own just because
he cared so very much about them Pavel
Fomenko works through the winter at
temperatures of minus 40 often alone
almost off the map his commitment means
we can help track and protect the few
remaining leopards they are so rare so
rarely seen that only a few have ever
been filmed to monitor many we must rely
on photos secured by remote cameras
which are triggered by the animals
movement
thanks to these cameras we can see Tosti
a male his name in stocky and well-fed
he inherited or fought for his home
range 10 years or more ago we can see al
Duga the last surviving female in her
home range a Nava another female who has
adapted well to an unusual habitat boggy
lowland meadow three wild Amur leopards
among so few that remain please will you
adopt them no big cat faces a greater
threat of extinction your adoption of
the amulet is really important every
single one of them counts they're in
such a precarious situation and with
your support we can help save the Amur
leopard and the many other species on
which we work around the world by
supporting our work with these rare
animals you can bring them back from the
edge it's hard to imagine a better way
to help such remarkable and remarkably
endangered animals
[Music]